=head1 NAME

macro.pl - plugin for openkore 1.6.2 and later

=head1 VERSION

This documentation applies to B<macro.pl> version 0.9.0 cvs

Documentation: $Revision: 2513 $ $Date: 2005-06-21 14:22:57 +0200 (di, 21 jun 2005) $

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With this plugin you can predefine command sequences (macros) which are
run either manually or by situation-dependent triggers.

This document describes the functions and global variables of B<macro.pl>

Please refer to L<http://openkore.sf.net/macro> for a description of
B<macro>'s configuration file syntax.

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

=head2 variables and hashes

=over 4

=item C<%macro>

Hash containing the macros. Hash structure:

=item C<%automacro>

Hash containing the automacros. Hash structure:

=item C<%varStack>

Variable stack, set with C<setVar(variable, value)> and get with C<getVar(variable)>.

=item C<%launcher>

When an automacro triggers, the hash contains the macro to be called in I<call>, the delay
settings in I<time>, I<timeout> and whether the macro should override the AI in I<override_ai>.

=item C<@macroQueue>

Queue of macro commands to be executed.

=item C<$cvs>

Debug object. Type C<perldoc cvsdebug.pm> for more information.

=item C<$cfID>

Config file ID, set by Settings::addConfigFile

=back

=head2 functions used by macros

=over 4

=item C<setVar(variable, value)>

Sets a variable with the value given as argument. Can be accessed either
via C<getVar("I<variable>")> or directly with $varStack{variable}.

Example: C<setVar("foo", "bar")>

Returns: 1

=item C<getVar(variable)>

Gets a variable from %varStack hash.

Example: C<getVar("lastPMnick")>

Returns: value of $varStack{variable} or undef if empty

=item C<getnpcid(position)>

Gets the array index of the NPC located at the given position. The argument
is a string containing the X and Y coordinates, separated by a whitespace.

Example: C<getnpcid("172 135")>

Returns: array index or -1 if no NPC was found at the given location

=item C<getPlayerID(name, r_pool)>

Gets the array index of the player named by I<name>. It looks at r_pool,
which is a reference to a variable.

Example: C<getPlayerID("Tom Jones", \@::playersID)>

Returns: array index or -1 if no player was found with that name

=item C<getItemID(item, r_pool)>

Gets the array index of the item I<name>.
It looks at r_pool, which is a reference to a variable.

Example: C<getItemID("red potion", \@{$cart{inventory})>

Returns: array index or -1 if the item was not found.

=item C<getStorageID(item)>

Gets the array index of the item I<name> in storage.

Example: C<getStorageID("red potion")>

Returns: array index or -1 if the item was not found.

=item C<getInventoryAmount(item)>

Gets the amount of an item I<name> in inventory.

Returns: amount

=item C<getStorageAmount(item)>

Gets the amount of an item I<name> in storage.

Returns: amount or null if storage had not been opened

=item C<getCartAmount(item)>

Gets the amount of an item I<name> in cart.

Returns: amount

=item C<getShopAmount(item)>

Gets the amount of an item I<name> in shop.

Returns: amount

=item C<getSoldOut()>

Gets the amount of shop slots that are sold out.

Returns: amount

=item C<getRandom(items)>

I<items> is a string containing the elements encased by quotes, separated
by whitespaces or comma.

Example: C<getRandom("\"Element one\", \"Element two\", \"Element three\"")>

Returns: a random element of the list

=item C<pushMacro(name, n)>

Inserts another macro at the current position into the macro queue.
If I<n> is given, it will insert the macro I<n> times.

Returns: 0 or undef if macro to be inserted was not found.

=item C<logMessage(message)>

Logs I<message> to openkore's console.

=item C<releaseAM(name)>

Removes automacro I<name> from run-once list.

Returns: 1 if succeeded, 0 if I<name> was not found.

=back

=head2 functions used by automacros

=over 4

=item C<refreshGlobal()>

Refreshes global variables on access, such as I<.pos>, I<.time>, I<.datetime>.

=item C<checkCast(spell, r_hash)>

Checks whether I<spell> is casted on or affecting the character.
r_hash is a reference to a hash containing I<targetID>, I<x>, I<y>,
I<skillID>.

=item C<checkClass(class)>

Checks whether the current character is of class I<class>.

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkEquip(item)>

Checks whether the character has I<item> equipped.

Example: C<checkEquip("Muffler [Whisper] [1]")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkLevel(condition, pool)>

Checks whether either base- or joblevel matches I<condition>.
I<pool> is either "job" or "base".

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkLoc(location)>

Checks for location. I<location> is a whitespace seperated list
containing I<map>, I<x>, I<y>, I<x2>, I<y2>, where I<map> is
mandatory. If I<x> and I<y> are given, it checks whether the
character is standing at I<map> I<x> I<y>. If I<x2> and I<y2>
are given, it checks whether the caracter is standing at I<map>
somewhere between I<x> and I<x2> and I<y> and I<y2>, where
I<x> < I<x2> and I<y> > I<y2>.

Example: C<checkLoc("prontera 147 125 160 100")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkPercent(condition, pool)>

Checks whether either HP or SP matches I<condition>. I<pool> is
either "sp" or "hp".

Example: C<checkPercent("< 30", "hp")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkPerson(name)>

Checks whether I<name> is on our screen.

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkMsg(var, line, r_hash)>

Checks whether the message given by I<r_hash> matches the message (in) I<line>.
I<line> must contain at least a '/regexp/' or a '"trigger message"'. For public
message check, you can add a maxmimum distance by appending ',distance' and use
'.lastpub' as I<var>, for private message check, add the allowed nicks by
appending ',nick1,nick2,...' and using '.lastpm' as I<var>.
I<r_hash> is a reference to a hash containing I<MsgUser> and I<Msg>.
This function sets the variable I<var> to I<$r_hash-E<gt>MsgUser>.

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkStatus(status)>

Checks whether we are I<status>. Allows prepended "not" to negate
the query.

Example: C<checkStatus("not awaken")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkVar(condition)>

Checks if a variable's value matches a certain condition. Variable,
condition and value are seperated by a whitespace.

Example: C<checkVar("something E<gt>= 100")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkItem(pool, item)>

Checks whether I<item> is in I<pool>. I<pool> can be one of the following:
I<inv> (inventory), I<stor> (storage), I<cart> (cart), I<shop> (shop).

Example: C<checkItem("inv", "Muffler [1]")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<checkCond(obj, condition)>

Checks whether I<obj> matches I<condition>.

Example: C<checkItem($char->{zeny}, "E<lt>= 100000")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=back

=head2 functions used by both

=over 4

=item C<ai_isIdle()>

Checks whether AI is idle.

Returns: 1 if AI is either "macro" or "deal" or $launcher{overrideAI}
is set, else 0

=item C<findMacroID(name)>

Returns: macro array index for I<name> or -1 if not found.

=item C<loadMacro(id)>

Loads macro with id I<id> into an array.

Returns: this array

=item C<clearMacro()>

Clears macro queue and removes 'macro' from AI queue.

=back

=head2 functions accessed via command line

=over 4

=item C<automacroReset(name)>

If I<name> is given, I<name> will be removed from automacro run-once list,
else the whole list is cleared.

=item C<usage()>

Sends an usage overview to console.

=item C<showVersion()>

Sends the version number to console.

=item C<list_macros()>

Sends an overview of all available macros and automacros to console.

=item C<runMacro(name, n)>

Runs the macro I<name>, if I<n> is specified, it will run I<n> times.

=item C<cmdSetVar(arg)>

I<arg> is a string with I<var> and I<val> separated by a whitespace. If
I<val> is omitted, I<var> will be deleted from C<%varStack>.

Example: C<cmdSetVar("kafra 151 29")>

=back

=head2 utility functions

=over 4

=item C<between(arg1, arg2, arg3)>

Checks whether I<arg2> is between (or equal) I<arg1> and I<arg3>.

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<cmpr(arg1, condition, arg2)>

Checks whether I<arg1> and I<arg2> match I<condition>.

Example: cmpr(12, "E<lt>=", 28).

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<match(text, keyword)>

Checks whether I<keyword> matches I<text>. If I<keyword> was enclosed by slashes (/) it will be treated as regexp. If it was enclosed by quotes ("), it checks for exact match.

Example: C<match("hello World", "/[Ww]orld$/")>, C<match("hello World", "\"hello World\"")>

Returns: 1 (true), 0 (false)

=item C<parseArgs(string)>

Parses I<string> into it's components where I<string> is either I<arg1 arg2 arg3> or I<"arg1" arg2 arg3>.

Returns: array containing the three arguments.

=item C<parseCmd(string)>

Parses I<string> and replaces all '@'-constructs if possible.

Returns: parsed string, undef if I<string> was @(log|call|release|pause|set) or substitution failed. If the substitution failed, the macro queue is cleared.

=item C<parseMacroFile(filename, r_hash)>

Parses the file I<filename> for macros and automacros and puts them into the hash reference I<r_hash>.

=back

=head2 other internal functions

=over 4

=item C<setDebug()>

Sets the C<$cvs> debug level to whatever was specified in config.txt for I<macro_debug>.

=item C<debuglevel(level)>

This function is called when the user changed the debug level by typing C<conf macro_debug #>.

=item C<Unload()>

Undefines C<$cvs> with the effect that it's destructor is called.
Then clears all hashes and hooks and removes F<macro.txt> from C<Settings>.

=back

=head1 AVAILABILITY

Get the latest release from L<http://openkore.sf.net/macro/#download>
or via CVS:

C<cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.sf.net:/cvsroot/openkore login>

C<cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.sf.net:/cvsroot/openkore co -P macro>

=head1 AUTHOR

Arachno <arachnophobia at users dot sf dot net>

=cut
